Abstract
Wind power curves play important roles in wind power forecasting, wind turbine condition monitoring, estimation of wind energy potential and wind turbine selection. In practice, it is a challenging task to produce reliable wind power curves from raw wind data due to the presence of outliers formed in unexpected conditions, e.g., wind curtailment and blade damage. This Notebook tried to approaching a model for power curve modeling. Moreover, the performances of different ML models are studied in different seasons.

In general, there are three factors that affect the final wind power curves: data filtering approaches; wind power curve models; and choice of optimization strategies. However, there is no guarantee that all outliers will be removed from the raw wind data. Consequently, designing robust regression models or constructing robust objective functions may be two effective ways to obtain accurate power curves in the presence of outliers.

Introduction
Wind energy is clean, inexhaustible, inexpensive and widely distributed [1]. However, the randomness and intermittency of wind lead to uncertainty in wind power generation, which brings challenges to the corresponding energy management system and affects the reliability of the entire power grid. Therefore, accurate estimates of wind power curves,which show the non-linear relationship between wind speed and wind power, are required for effective integration of wind power into the power system, as well as wind turbine condition monitoring projects.

A typical wind power curve is shown in above. Each wind turbine manufacturer provides an ideal energy production curve for their turbines. Here is a brief overview about what it means:

The power curve of a wind turbine presents the electrical power output ratings of the machine for different wind speeds.
A typical wind turbine power curve has three main characteristic speeds: 1) cut-in (Vc ); 2) rated (Vr ); and 3) cut-out (Vs) speeds.
The turbine starts generating power when the wind speed reaches the cut-in value. The rated speed is the wind speed at which the generator is producing the machine’s rated power. When the wind speed reaches the cut-out speed, the power generation is shut down to prevent defects and damages. Theoretical power curves are supplied by manufacturers assuming ideal meteorological and topographical conditions.

In practice, however, wind turbines are never used under ideal conditions, and the empirical power curves could be substantially different from the theoretical ones due to the location of the turbine, air density, wind velocity distribution, wind direction, mechanical and control issues, as well as uncertainties in measurements. 

Wind power forecasting
Accurate prediction of wind power is critical to increasing the utilization of wind in the electricity grid. It also helps power system operators to plan unit commitment, economic scheduling, and dispatch. In general, an accurate power curve is conducive to wind power prediction. So, a suitable power curve results in more accurate power forecasts.

Wind energy potential estimation and wind turbine selection
Wind energy potential is an important factor in identifying potential areas that might be suitable for wind energy development. Accurate estimation of wind energy potential is not only an essential part of wind energy development and utilization, but also provides investors with the necessary confidence in financial feasibility and risk mitigation.

Wind turbine condition monitoring
The wind power curve characterizes wind turbine generation under normal conditions, so it can be used as an online wind turbine power generation profile. This can help us understand whether a wind turbine works under normal conditions, and then allowing for troubleshooting and scheduling maintenance, as well as repair interventions when the turbine is faulty. Understanding potential failures will help maintain and improve the operational efficiency and reliability of wind energy conversion systems.

Data description
In Wind Turbines, Scada Systems measure and save data's like wind speed, wind direction, generated power etc. for 10 minutes intervals. This file was taken from a wind turbine's scada system that is working and generating power in Turkey.

The data's in the file are:

Date/Time (for 10 minutes intervals)
LV ActivePower (kW): The power generated by the turbine for that moment
Wind Speed (m/s): The wind speed at the hub height of the turbine (the wind speed that turbine use for electricity generation)
TheoreticalPowerCurve (KWh): The theoretical power values that the turbine generates with that wind speed which is given by the turbine manufacturer, and
Wind Direction (°): The wind direction at the hub height of the turbine (wind turbines turn to this direction automaticly)
